# Health-Manager
This is an android application made with the orginal intention to help individuals manage logging their weights.

The goal of this application is to create a health management platform that starts with the first building block, weight management. For future versions I can expand into other health management demands such as calorie counting or health sensor capturing. This application is designed to address the users’ needs to keep track of their weight. To successfully implement this application for the user needs provided I’ve implemented a multi-seat application that allows users to register for an account and keep their data associated and private to that account. 
	To create a user centered application, I focused on the user interface and user experience above all else. Mobile users have high expectations for their UI/UX design choices and want their application to feel native to the operating system instead of working around it. Currently the expectation is that a user interface is clean and minimal with accessibility features in abundance. I accomplished this by adhering to the Material 3 design guidelines put out by Android. This includes a specific contrast ratio between themes, alternative text and hints provided, and minimum and maximum user interface sizes based on the device size.
During this project development I honed my technique through trial and error. Going forward I’d start with capturing user stories and translating them into project requirements through a version control like GitHub. This allows me to expand those ideas with sub issues as the implementation drives down through the abstraction. Once I am confident that the project requirements are understood I’d work towards a user interface as users place a high expectation on design choices. Working in Figma to build a wire frame is a foundational choice I’d make in the future as this allows me to create visual understandings of the user needs. This was discovered through trial and error as I jumped straight into the .XML layout markup originally. This worked for a while until I started adding elements programmatically. This made visualization of the project difficult and was an implementation choice I regretted. To ensure that my code was functional I created edge case unit tests, manual code reviews, and used static code analysis tools like a dedicated linter. This process revealed many deficiencies in the business logic of the code beyond what a compiler could provide. In this area of business logic it is where I found the most innovation needed. This is acted as the middle wear that brought the backend and Android framework together. I believe I was most successful in identifying security vulnerabilities and implementing the backend of the application. 

